
A Teaching Mission Statement for the College of Computer Science 
================================================================

1. Rationale 
------------   

Since we all like to criticize companies for short-term thinking, we -- as
employees and co-managers of a university -- are clearly long-term
thinkers; otherwise we are hypocrites, and there is nothing worse than
those. Right?

As long-term thinkers, we must have the long-term health of our College in
mind, and that can only mean its long-term financial health because without
financial health, there is no College. 

In this spirit, teaching is our central and critical activity, especially
teaching undergraduates and undergraduates of a certain kind. According to
University development officers, donations from undergraduate alumni make
up the largest share of contributions to the endowment. MS students tend to
prefer their (home country) over an US institution, and always prefer their
undergraduate alma mater over their graduate one. PhD students end up in
academic positions and research labs and such, and hardly ever get
super-rich.									[Yes, I am perfectly aware of 
										 Larry and Sergey. When was the
										 last time that our College 
										 graduated a Larry or Sergey?] 

Undergraduate students come in roughly three categories: 
 
 * the "99%", with which I am referring to the vast majority of graduates
   that are hired with the expectation that they can develop code --
   because the title of their degree includes the words "computer science" 

 * the 5%, with which I mean the really strong undergraduates whom we train
   to become like us -- PhDs. As you know of course, the institution that
   gets credit for that is the advisor. And perhaps where the advisor
   works. So we train such kids because we want similar kids back from
   Cornell, CMU, MIT, Harvard, UW, and wherever else we send them. 

 * the .1%, who are of course the very few who make billions by founding a
   new companies. Think EMC. 

Like the tax income of a government, the vast number of donations comes
from the 99%, though unlike in the case of taxes, they often do not make up
the largest share of donation dollars. Those come from the .1%ers, because
the 5%ers get a PhD, and PhD graduates don't donate, because they are like
us. 

Finally, we must accept that alumni donates because they fondly remember
the parties and the teachers that made them think. The more of us stand out
in the memories of our alumni, the more chances we have that when they
reach "donation age", they will commit their dollars to us. 


2. Education 
------------

If we accept the Rationale, our professional efforts must focus on the
99%ers and the .1%ers; dedication to the 5%ers must be considered a
luxury.									[I like this luxury like most 
									 people like some amount of luxury,
									 and that's why is why I spent more 
									 than six days per week on my "work."]
Here is what this focus means 

* making the education we offer relevant to the 99% and the .1% 

* thinking of everything we do in terms of education: courses, research,
  competitions ("capture the flag"), writing books ("realm of racket"),
  creating public-domain software with students, and so on.

Now dream of means to integrate our undergraduates in all of these areas.

3. Courses for the 99%
----------------------

The 99% need rock solid courses. They need a coherent curriculum. To make
up for the poor value of Northeastern's name when compared to, say,
Harvard, which has a miserable course system for the 99%, our curriculum
and its courses must be strictly superior to others'.

A superior curriculum demands an extreme focus on the eventual goal,
delivering software developers. By implication, such a curriculum calls for
coherence. 

A superior course demands university level challenges to our students --
most of whom clearly can live up them -- and charismatic delivery. 

4. Training the .1%
-------------------

The .1% probably need to take some of our basic courses so that they get
exposed to some of our great teachers who may end up becoming their faculty
mentor, the person they remember when they get old enough to donate.

These students also need outside challenges and opportunities. This could
start with a freshman seminar on the great ideas of computing and
programming. It may consist of seminars on applying computing ideas to the
problems of financial crises or the engineering of AI-based assembly
lines. We may also wish to introduce a project-based BS degree, where
advanced students replace course work with a year-long "thesis project",
which may cover any topic that applies computing to some non-computing
area.									[Not to be confused with a 
									 research thesis, which 
									 prepares students for a 
									 PhD program.]

5. Everyone Else: the 5%, PhD Students
--------------------------------------

At heart we are researchers. Sheer self-interest and our internal
self-preservation drive will force us to continue to do well with the
research goals: preparing undergraduates for PhD programs and PhDs for
research positions. We are doing a reasonable job with that, and I am sure
we will. 
