## Learning, Reviews, Reviews 

### Learning to Read 

- in k12, many of you experienced spoonfeeding of ideas and knowledge. 

- based on our experience in F I, II, and OOD, many of you need to be
  weaned off .. and we don't completely succeed 

- in Sw Dev, one of the learning goals is "reading and comprehending across
  multiple, evolving documents. This is survival skill because

  - you may work in a firm w/o colleagues who can help 
  - you may work in a context with unhelpful team members 
  - your boss won't look kindly at your constant requests for clarification
  - and so on. 

- so Sw Dev is an opportunity where you get blunt feedback in contrast to
  real-world contexts where bosses are highly reluctant to do so and may
  just factor their take into the next raise 

- someone who answers Piazza questions directly, spoonfeeds and denies the
  OP's an opportunity to sharpen his/her skills. It is the best way to keep
  potential competitors unskilled and enhance your own reputation. 

- someone who receives such answers and uses them is 
  - cheated off a really good opportunity 
  - denied blunt feedback 
  - fails to understand what he/she missed (in terms of learning) 
  - has to trust a "foreign" source and may fall into (unintentional) traps 

The point is, while grades matter, college is the one place where you can
learn and failing to figure out things results in nothing but a bad grade. 

How to help someone who is struggling with such questions: 
    
- state that the answer can be found in the requirements documents 
- point to the series (e.g. "assignments 4 thru 6") without being specific 

In no case provide a plain answer. 

Our approach is to 

- answer if the question exposes a gap in the requirement specifications 

- *not* answer if questions are obviously answered in the current assignment 

- *not* answer if the question has been answered before on Piazza 

- answer as above if someone seems desperate 

- reluctantly answer any question posted by this Anonymous guy 

But ideally, we would like to see you in office hours where we can assess
the problem and react properly with face-to-face meetings. 


### Design Review : Referee 


| Matthias 	         | Jason  		  | Role		   |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Noah Lichtenstein 	 | Aaron Levine 	  | presenter |
| Nicholas Seidl 	 | Daniel Gimeno 	  |           |
| 	                 |        		  | panelists |
| John Loar 		 | Morolayo Lambo 	  | head      |
| Grant Palmer 		 | Marie Yatsyk 		  | assistant |
| Christopher Ritter 	 | Murray Sandmeyer 	  | secretary |


### Code Review : Strategy 


| Matthias 	         | Jason  		  | Role		   |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Nicholas Ippoliti | Nicholas Chiappari | presenter |
| Darren Roscoe     | William Becker 	 |           |
|                   |                    | panelists |
| Brendan Reed 	    | Christopher Gast 	 | head |
| William Tan 	    | Kevin Liang 	 | assistant |
| Agustin Romero    | Anika Jagow 	 | secretary |


### Code Review : Strategy 


| Matthias 	         | Jason  		  | Role		   |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Anand Kumar 		 | Marie Yatsyk 	  | presenter |
| Kevin Allen 		 | Sebastian Ruiz Velasco Aguado |           |
| 	                 |                   	  | panelists |
| Kyle McCrosson 	 | Ian Meyeres 	  | head |
| Derek Schuster 	 | Jameson O'Connor   	  | assistant |
| Michael Smith 	 | Sarah Zhang 		  | secretary |
