## 4 for 1 

Today's goal is to cover four distinct topics: 
- the mechanics and psychology of design and code reviews 
- preparation for the next assignment (mechanics)
- preparation for the next assignment (ideas)
- the ins and outs of pair programming 

### Psychology and Reviews 

- The language parser catches spelling mistakes and grammatical irregularities. 
  ("Don't misspell a keyword, e.g., elsa. And don't spell a variable in two different ways.")

- The type system catches typos.
  ("Don't index into a scalar variable.")

- The run-time system checks catch critical logical invariant violations.
  ("Don't index to the 11th place in an array of 10 elements".)

- Contracts hand the power of the developer of run-time systems to ordinary developers.
  ("Let me specify at my module boundary that my spreadsheet cross
   references are `okay'.")

- The really costly mistakes are violations of complex but unwritten logical invariants.  

We have two different ways of catching those: 

- Machine-checked proofs. The overhead is two orders of magnitude of code. 

- Design and code reviews. Other eyes, with an understanding of the
  problem, inspect and double-check the design/code. 

The idea seems to have been developed at IBM when it was _the_ powerhouse
in the _computer_ business. (At the time people did not cleanly separate
software from hardware.) They specifically started from "clean rooms" in
the hardware world and wanted to understand what it would take to apply
similar review techniques to the software world. The idea is to collect a
bunch of people who understand the problem and have them inspect the
artifact or its blueprints with the creators present to answer questions. 

Here are some of the questions about reviews that they posed and answered
in a systematic way with experiments:

- What is the purpose of a review? 
- What is the optimal number of people for a review? 
- What are the roles of these people during a review? 
- Should these people know the problem? 
- Should these people have read the design/code before the review?
- How should the presenters get feedback? 
- What are good "mechanics" for a review? 

The answers may surprise you, they did surprise me: 

- The presenters should move from the outside (thesis) to the critical
  places as quickly as possible so that the reviewers can help discover
  flaws, overlooked border cases, etc. 

- Three:
  - One is the head reader and makes decisions when conflicts arise or too
    many people talk at once, and so on. 
  - One is the assistant reader, because two pairs of eyes reading code is
    better than one. 
  - One is a "secretary" ("writer") who notes all issues discovered and, if
    applicable, possible constructive ways out. 

- The people must know the problem area and must have an idea how the
  presenters went about solving the problem. 

- But it turns out that the results of reviews are just as good when
  people studied the presented design/code first or when they see the
  design/code the first time during the review. 

- The secretary's memo is the major feedback. In this day and age, we may
  turn this write-up into a GitHub issue list. 

- They used a "confrontational" approach, placing the reviewers opposite of
  the presenters. Nowadays people use (occasionally anonymous) github
  mark-ups and on-line discussion boards. *My impression* is that these
  devices lead to occasional flare-ups because people don't see each other
  and don't look each other in the face when they make seriously negative
  statements. But, I also have negative experiences with face-to-face
  reviews. 

[The Rare Worker Who Thrives on Negative Feedback](http://felleisen.org/matthias/Articles/negative-feedback.pdf)

### Assignment 3, Exploring TCP 

Assignment 3 asks you to explore the TCP facilities of your favorite
language, because we will implement a distributed system eventually. 
You need to know some basic ideas: we will use the TCP protocol, which 
guarantees arrival of messages (in some way, until someone cuts the cord). 
You need to know how your language deals with TCP; like with JSON, look for
libraries that make it convenient. 

Once you have that, turn your program from assignment 2 into a TCP server
instead of a COMMAND line program. 

Demo: 

- Run server Code/3/3 on laptop. 
- Show how to retrieve the IP number of laptop.
- SSH into `login-students`. 
- TELNET to port 8000 on laptop and throw JSON at it. Close with ^D. Watch output. 

- Alternatively, use two SHELL windows on your laptop to connect to each other. 

Ergo, TELNET provides you with a way to simulate command line input
remotely.  If you end up writing distributed systems, you will get to know
better tools, like NETCAT, to get around the world. And you will need
additional courses. 

### Interface and Protocol Specifications 

How do you design an interface? 

What you are typically given is an English description of requirements. This
description identifies information that your module (program) must deal with. 
And it is precisely here where the lessons of Fundamentals I and II and OOD
kick in: 

- the first design step is to figure out which forms of data in your chosen
  language are a good representation for the information
  - dictionaries are not the only form of data in the world 
- you figure out information examples from the requirements write-up and you
  try to turn them into data examples 
- when you have honed in on a data example description, you go the other
  way, meaning, you make up data examples and figure out how to interpret
  them as information 

After you have figured out the data representation, you move on to
signatures and purpose statements. The rest you can leave to the amazing
coders in Codemanistan. 

*Example* 

Assignment 2, task 1 was exactly about this step. Which _information_
concepts did it mention: 

- spreadsheet 
- rectangle of ...
- formulas (which have at least four variants) 

So we need to express three data types. 

*Untyped Language* If you have chosen an untyped language, or Python 3.6+, 
you need to write down comments _and_ you must keep these things straight in
your head. This is harder, but also more flexible. We practiced this in
Fundamentals I. 

*Typed Language* If you have chosen a type language, you need to articulate
your choices as types, which as the advantage that you get automated checks
later on. This idea was the topic of Fundamentals II. 

And then you add signatures and purpose statements for the required
functions and methods. 

And if you expose class constructors -- in some languages you have no choice
-- you need to spell out how to use constructors. BUT, in general you're
better off exposing a function that constructs instances of a class and
reserve the class exposure for inheritance. 

- Now walk thru Code/2/spread.pdf 

This is how you come up with _interfaces_ for modules once you know what
services they need to provide. (See lecture 2 for an idea of how to find
those.)

*Protocols* 

Beyond interface specifications, developers often also need to know about
_protocols_, that is, ordering of method/function calls and other
relationship among them. 

*Example* 

A file descriptor is a data representation of a file on your OS. It tends
to have two obvious methods: 

- `open` (for reading, writing, or both) 
- `close`

Additionally, it may come with operations for reading, writing, or
positioning it at a particular point: 

- `read` 
- `write` 
- `place` 

Clearly, a client of the file module must call `open` before calling `place`
and then `close`. People have used at least three different options for
writing this down: 

1. English 
2. Finite state machine diagrams or regular expressions over method names
3. UML interaction diagrams 
   - lifelines 
   - message lines 
   - message formats 

```
     FILE               CLIENT 
      |                   |
      |<------------------| open(read-write) 
      |                   |
      |<------------------| read-json 
      |==================>| return (JSON) 
      |                   |
      |  ... ... ... ...  |
      |<------------------| close()
      |                   |
     ___                  |
                          |
                          |
                          |
```

On occasion, you have even more "objects" involved, and one object may
create another. Indicate so. 

If your protocol is also about network connectivity, indicated which calls
cross the networks with differently shaped message lines.

### Pair Programming 

You have seen pair programming since freshman year. You may not have taken
it seriously. But here is our rationale for this course, and it should be
the rationale for any company that values its code base. 

*What and How* 

Two people take turns to design and interpret interfaces, design functions,
add tests for bugs, debug using the test suite, and deploy the software on
Linux. 

*Why* 

- Two pairs of eyes are better than one. Designing and Programming is
  primarily a thinking activity. Contrary to O'Reilly's "The Essentials of
  Copying and Pasting from Stackoverflow", real programming engages the
  brain, and no software (compiler IntelliJ whatever) can check your
  thinking. 

- Two brains (and more) knowing _my_ (as in manager, owner) code base well
  is better than having a single super developer on staff who can blackmail
  me with threats to leave and sink my start-up/team within the company.

- Two is a better bus number than one. 

*Strengths and Weaknesses* 

You may think you can do it alone. What if you get sick? 

You may think your partner can do it all. If so, you're a lazy bump and
when your boss finds out you get fired. 

In general, people have unequal skills. The key is to use each others
strengths' and learn from each other. 

*Code Walks* 

We will downgrade every partner of a pair if we discover that one of the
partners is not up to speed with the code. 


*Evidence* 

Laurie Williams and Bob Kessler some 10 years ago published a comprehensive
book after studying the use of pair programming in a variety of settings,
but mostly industry. They came to the conclusion that pair programming
saves companies money in the long run. 

Besides the advantages already mentioned, pair programming creates ties
between people and, if well managed, these ties are positive,
self-reinforcing ones. These ties, in turn, binds people to the company,
avoiding costs with on-boarding new people. 

If you ever need arguments for pair programming, I recommend you read the
book. 
