
Matthias Felleisen, a Trustee Professor at Northeastern University,
explores all aspects of program and programming language design.  His
current research involves work on behavioral software contracts, gradual
typing of scripting languages, language interoperability, language
extensibility, and module systems. In addition to his research, Felleisen
engages in educational outreach work. For the past 20 years, he and his
team have worked with middle schools, high schools, after-school programs,
and college faculty on injecting design ideas into mathematics and computer
science courses. Such educational interactions often inspire his research,
and many research efforts end up improving his educational work.  The ACM
inducted Felleisen as a Fellow in 2007. In 2009, he received the ACM Karl
V. Karlstrom Award. ACM SIGCSE honored him as the Educator of the Year in
2010, and ACM SIGPLAN added their lifetime award in 2012.



Matthias Felleisen explores all aspects of program design and programming
language design.  His current research involves work on behavioral software
contracts, gradual typing of scripting languages, language
interoperability, language extensibility, and module systems. In addition
to his research, Felleisen engages in educational outreach work. For the
past 20 years, he and his team have worked with middle schools, high
schools, after-school programs, and college faculty on injecting design
ideas into mathematics and computer science courses. Such educational
interactions often inspire his research, and many research efforts end up
improving his educational work.  The ACM inducted Felleisen as a Fellow in
2007. In 2009, he received the ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Award. ACM SIGCSE
honored him as the Educator of the Year in 2010, and ACM SIGPLAN added
their lifetime award in 2012.


